Describe your efforts on this project. (How many hours spent, the story of wrong turns and/or breakthroughs, etc)
What insights/breakthroughs did you come to that will stick with you in your future career?
Are you proud of your efforts? Why or why not?
What was your overall impression of the experience?

I think I spent around 25-30 ish hours on this project. This included watching videos, coding, and googling information about ciphers. 
My timeline went from reading the notes to watching class videos, to office hours and the internet, and then finally to coding and troubleshooting.
I mainly concentrated my efforts on the hill 2x2 cipher. My main goal, after the 3rd office hour session, was to get at least one of them, and I followed the guidance in class in getting the brute force ciphers done first.
I wasted a lot of time reading through the website, following the video lectures, and attempting the vigenere cipher instead of just looking online to see the best ways to go about attacking each text and which ciphers would be the easiest to solve. I think if I did not initially do this, I could have easily gotten 4 of them, excluding playfair. I am proud of the work I did for the hill cipher. I am not proud that my code for the columnar transposition did not end up working. I went through a few iterations of code for it but I could not get past dealing with the leftover cells in the last row, even after consulting chatgpt (It did give me a really cool way of printing out text in grid format though). I know I was close, but I did not put enough time in to get it. 

I definitely think the coding exercises have helped me out in my career since I have started using python for scripting, and this has helped me become more comfortable with it. I know now that I need a plan before I jump in and start typing since that makes my code become very ugly and I get lost before I complete certain parts of the code. My overall impression of this was positive. I don't think that my time was wasted at first, but I was a bit lost and used a good chunk of time reading about these ciphers when I should have been playing around in an IDE. I also was attempting to decode the wrong text for a long time, which really infuriated me, but such is life.

Overall, this was a good introduction to the subject. I think it could be set up in a way that more easily facilitates solving the ciphers, but that might defeat the purpose of discovery and having many failed attempts in the learning process. I know myself pretty well, and I am glad that I spent most of my time doing the more technical ciphers instead of the analytical ones. I think I gained much more from the hill code alone than I would have gotten from successfully decoding playfair, substitution, and vigenere. Although it is nice to know how I would go about solving those ones, I enjoyed the other two much more, and the pains that I went through with hill will stay with me for the rest of my life. 
